## Investigating the influence of handedness and musical training on connectivities between auditory core areas during processing of speech, singing and music 

The aim of this study is to examine connectivity differences between correlates of the auditory core network according to the processing of speech, singing and non vocal musical stimuli. Furthermore, the influence of handedness (left- vs. righthanded) and musical education (musicians vs. non-musicians) on neuronal auditory network processing will be investigated. 
The auditory core network consists of three main areas: the primary auditory cortex (PAC or HG for Heschel's gyrus) (Da Costa et al., 2011) and, as non primary allocations within the superior temporal gyrus (STG), the planum polare (anterior STG) and planum temporale, pinpointed at the posterior part of STG (Zatorre, 2002). After more and more investigations accumulated during the past decade, it seems that the processing of music and speech is in parts distinct from each other and mainly allocated within non-primary areas above PAC (Norman-Haignere, Kanwisher, & McDermott, 2015; Rogalsky, Rong, Saberi, & Hickok, 2011)⁠. Also hemispheric lateralisations have been reported, assuming that processing of language seems to be more left lateralized while music processing might occure more within the right hemisphere (Josse & Tzourio-Mazoyer, 2004; Tervaniemi, 2006)⁠. Notably, possible lateralisation effects in auditory cortex are still very contradictory discussed. As one factor proposed to influence the processing of speech and music, Angulo-Perkins et al. (2014)⁠ showed that bilateral activation of the mainly music-senstitive region of planum polare occured more in musicians than in non-musicians and that the normally observed separated processing of these two stimuli seems to vanish.
For this study, we want to recrute 4 cohorts of paricipants differing from each other in the aspects of handedness and musical training. One contrast should compare right-handed musicians against right-handed non-musicians, the other contrast is aiming for differences between left-handed non-musicians compared to right-handed non-musicians. 
For data acquisition, participants brains are being scanned in a 3 Tesla scanner during listening to three auditory stimuli labelled as speech, singing and non vocal music. During this auditory task functional brainimages of BOLD-activity are being gathered, also structural anatomical measurements for later data processing will be performed.

### References

Angulo-Perkins, A., Aubé, W., Peretz, I., Barrios, F. A., Armony, J. L., & Concha, L. (2014). Music listening engages specific cortical regions within the temporal lobes: Differences between musicians and non-musicians. Cortex, 59, 126–137. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cortex.2014.07.013
Da Costa, S., van der Zwaag, W., Marques, J. P., Frackowiak, R. S. J., Clarke, S., & Saenz, M. (2011). Human Primary Auditory Cortex Follows the Shape of Heschl’s Gyrus. Journal of Neuroscience, 31(40), 14067–14075. https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2000-11.2011
Josse, G., & Tzourio-Mazoyer, N. (2004). Hemispheric specialization for language. Brain Research Reviews. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brainresrev.2003.10.001
Norman-Haignere, S., Kanwisher, N. G., & McDermott, J. H. (2015). Distinct Cortical Pathways for Music and Speech Revealed by Hypothesis-Free Voxel Decomposition. Neuron, 88(6), 1281–1296. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2015.11.035
Rogalsky, C., Rong, F., Saberi, K., & Hickok, G. (2011). Functional Anatomy of Language and Music Perception: Temporal and Structural Factors Investigated Using Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging. Journal of Neuroscience, 31(10), 3843–3852. https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4515-10.2011
Tervaniemi, M. (2006). From Air Oscillations to Music and Speech: Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging Evidence for Fine-Tuned Neural Networks in Audition. Journal of Neuroscience, 26(34), 8647–8652. https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0995-06.2006
Zatorre, J. R. (2002). Auditory Cortex, Encyclopedia of the Human Brain (p. 289-301). Elsevier. https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B0122272102000467
 
